# XCSS Client

The extension connects to language servers in this fallback order:

- Locally installed in the workspace directory
- Globally installed on the system
- Built-in language instance bundled with the extension

In `./xcss/configure.jsonc` | `environment`, determines the css completion provider in composition blocks.
	
## Status bar Widget

- Hover to find Sandbox-Url.
- Click on widget to see essential links and and Cli commands.
- Displays if focused editor file is being watched and error count.

> Run `Preview` or `Debug`, command from widget palttte before proceeding further.

## Practice Element

Use this code block as your workspace to try out features.

```html
<summon 
demo$button="
	= tx$weight-600 border-none cursor-pointer;
	--button_radius: 0.75em;
	--button_color: #e8e8e8;
	--button_outline_color: #000000;
	font-size: 17px;
	border-radius: var(--button_radius);
	background: var(--button_outline_color);
	& > span {
		= tfx$duration-100 d-flex px-6 py-4 mod$-translate-y-6;
		box-sizing: border-box;
		border: 2px solid var(--button_outline_color);
		border-radius: var(--button_radius);
		background: var(--button_color);
		color: var(--button_outline_color);
	}
	&:hover > span {
		= mod$-translate-y-8;
	}
	&:active > span {
		= mod$translate-y-0;
	}
	&[x-preset-]& {
		&[1] {
			--button_color: #ffe17d;
			--button_outline_color: #491505;
		}
		&[2] {
			--button_color: #b3fff9;
			--button_outline_color: #495f7a;
		}
	}
"
x-preset-1
> 
    <span> Click Me </span>
</summon>

<button class="=demo$button">
</button>

```
Inspiration: https://uiverse.io/Voxybuns/lucky-fireant-71

## Shortcuts

### SandBox: `[ ctrl + alt + x ]`

- Put cursor on a symclass here `demo$buttom` instance and trigger event.
- Change attribute `x-preset-1` to `x-preset-2`, to observe live udpates.
- In the sandbox webview panal few tools are available try out those.

### Formating: `[ alt + shift + x ]`

- The extension formats XCSS-Composition Blocks in the focused file on first trigger.
- Subsequent triggers toggle the nearest folding range across the entire file, not just composition blocks.

### Source/Target Switch: `[ ctrl + alt + shift + x ]`

- Toggle between files in the source and target directories with a one-to-one mapping.
- This feature will not work for `*.xcss` files, given the fact compilation doesnot produce source files.

### Template Import: `[ alt + x ]`

- Import available templates for the symclass at the active cursor position, appending them to the current HTML tag.
- In practice: Change `class=""` to `class="=demo$button"`, hover over preferred symclass and trigger the event, the template snippet imports after the current tag scope.
- This is especially useful for complex, highly structured compound components, allowing you to build and iterate from there

### Goto Source: `[ F12 ]` / `[ ctrl + (left-click over symclass) ]`

- Redirects to location of declaration.

## Language support

- Files of extensions `.xcss` is treated as markdown.
- Support for `@--attach` and `@--assign` directives css files.
- Tooltips with information, on watching attributes, symbolic classes and hashrules.
- Block recognitions, folding range detection, color pallete and syntax highliting for XCSS Composition blocks.
- Color picker palettes: `rgb`, `rgba`, `hsl`, `hsla`, `lch`, `oklch`, `lab`, `oklab`, `hex`

### Developer Assistance

## Real-time diagnostics.

- Declararion collition of symclasses as errors.
- Invalid use of hashrules as warnings.

## Intellisense and autocomplete.

- Symbolc classes: Across file on valid trigger.
- Hashrules: on `&` or `#`(have a chance to not get triggered in case of collition with other extensions), for tag attributes.
- Variables: Resolved from complete active tag-scope.
- Attributes: Varient attributes derived from tag-scope.
